---
layout: single
title: "JWT feat. Django"
categories: django
tag: [django, back-end, rest-api, drf]
---
## Introduction 
In this post, I am going to talk about JSON Web Token(JWT), and how to implement it in DRF. First of all, JSON Web Token itself is just _"an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object"_[[1]](https://jwt.io/introduction).

However, in this post, I will refer it to as the JWT Authentication method. So, JWT is an authentication method that securely transmit user authentication information in the form of a JSON token. I will explain how it works in detail later in the post.

### Table of Contents:
- Structure of JSON Web Tokens
- JWT Auth Method Workflow 
- Benefits of using JWT
- Security concerns when using JWT
- Implementing it in DRF(Django Rest Framework)

## Structure of JSON Web Tokens
A JSON Web Token consists of three parts.
- ***Header***: typically consists of the type of the token, and the signing algorithm. It is usually _encoded_ using base64Url.
    ```JSON
    {
        "alg": "HS256",
        "typ": "JWT"
    }
    ```
- ***Payload***: contains the claims (information about user). There are three types of claims.
    - Registered Claims: provided useful and exchangable informations, such as _iss_ (issuer), _sub_ (subject), _aud_ (audience).
    - Public Claims: defined by you, according to some manuals, which will not be discussed in this post.
    ```JSON
    {
        "sub": "1234567890",
        "name": "John Doe",
        "admin": true
    }
    ```
- ***Signature***: created to make sure that the token is not forgered, or manipulated. In case your algorithm uses private key, like RSA, it can also verify that the sender of the JWT is who it says it is.
    - Created by hashing, or encrypting, depending on your algorithm, the encoded header, payload and secret. In the case of django, the secret would be the django's secret key.
    - At the end, a JSON Web Token would look sth like this.
    ```JSON
    // Example JSON Web Token
    eyJhbGci0iJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.
    eyJzdWIi0iIxMjM0NTY30DkwIiwibmFtZSI6IkpvaG4
    gRG91IiwiaXNTb2NpYWwiOnRydWV9.
    4pcPyMD09o1PSyXnrXCjTwXyr4BsezdI1AVTmud2fU4
    ```
## JWT Auth Method Workflow 
**Example Login workflow using JWT**
1. User provides necessary information (e.x: email & password), through a **secured** path (e.x: https), and makes an request to server.
2. The server, in this case django, validates the information against the Database.
3. If valid, server signs and creates a JSON Web Token and return it to user.
4. User stores it in **secure** space (e.x: HttpOnly Cookie).
5. **User put it in the Authorization header using the Bearer schema** whenever make request to server
    ```JSON
    Authorization: Bearer <token>
    ```
6. Server valides user's permissions using that token in the header

I hope that example workflow was enough to grasp an insight into how JWT 
authentication method works. For more detailed information, checkout this great page
- https://jwt.io/introduction

## Benefits of using JWT method
As you may have already noticed, this JWT method comes in handy when using REST API. Since RESTful APIs are stateless, they do not store any information about the session. Without JWt, the user might have provide their email and password everytime they make a request. However, with JWT, the server can sign and give out these tokens, which usually expires after a certain amount of time, to authenticate each requests and identify the user.

## Security Concerns
https://youtu.be/XXseiON9CV0?si=EAAKhoq7uJqydona

## Jwt with django
I am going to implement jwt in DRF with `djangorestframework-simplejwt`. Here's the [official documentation](https://django-rest-framework-simplejwt.readthedocs.io/en/latest/settings.html) for it.
- https://django-rest-framework-simplejwt.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

### Install
`pip install djangorestframework-simplejwt`

### settings.py
First, add `rest_framework_simplejwt.authentication.JWTAuthentication` to the `DEFAULT_AUTHENTICATION_CLASSES` tuple.
```Python
# settings.py
REST_FRAMEWORK = {
    ...
    'DEFAULT_AUTHENTICATION_CLASSES': (
        ...
        'rest_framework_simplejwt.authentication.JWTAuthentication',
    )
    ...
}   
```
Then you can configure the settings for your jwt method. Refer to the [official documentation](https://django-rest-framework-simplejwt.readthedocs.io/en/latest/settings.html) for detailed explanation of all the settings
- https://django-rest-framework-simplejwt.readthedocs.io/en/latest/settings.html

Here's a simple settings where you might want to get started.

```Python
from datetime import timedelta

SIMPLE_JWT = {
    "ACCESS_TOKEN_LIFETIME": timedelta(minutes=30),
    "REFRESH_TOKEN_LIFETIME": timedelta(days=1),
    "USER_ID_FIELD": "email",
    "ALGORITHM": "HS256",
    "SIGNING_KEY": settings.SECRET_KEY,
    "VERIFYING_KEY": "",
}
```
- **ACCESS & REFRESH Token Lifetime**
    - They determine how long your access token and refresh token lasts. **Access tokens** are basically tokens that the client can put in the Authorization header to gain access to certain endpoints. **Refresh tokens** are JWT tokens that the client can use to get a new access token.
- **USER_ID_FIELD**
    - This is the unique identifier for the user. Depending on what model you are using for your user, it could be `user_id`, `email`, `uuid` or whatever you set it to. By default, it is `user_id`.
- **ALGORITHM**
    - Default is HS256. This is the algorithm used for signing the token as mentioned above. You can also use asymetric algorithm like RSA, by changing it to `RS256`.
- **SIGNING & VERIFYING KEY**
    - default signing key is the django's secret key, and verifying key is empy. However, **if you are going to use RSA** as your algorithm, you have to set them as the private & public key respectively.

### urls.py
Now, in your **root** urls.py file,
```Python
from rest_framework_simplejwt.views import (
    TokenObtainPairView,
    TokenRefreshView,
)

urlpatterns = [
    ...
    path('api/token/', TokenObtainPairView.as_view(),   
        name='token_obtain_pair'),
    path('api/token/refresh/', TokenRefreshView.as_view(), 
        name='token_refresh'),
    ...
]
```
### views.py
Now we have set up our package, let's use it in our endpoints. The code below is very straight forward. It takes the user as parameter, create tokens, then set is as HttpOnly Cookie, and return it to user. 

```Python
# views.py
from rest_framework_simplejwt.serializers import TokenObtainPairSerializer


def get_successful_login_response(user: User) -> Response:
    token = TokenObtainPairSerializer.get_token(user)
    refresh_token = str(token)
    access_token = str(token.access_token)
    res = Response(
        {
            "message": "logged in successfully",
            "token": {
                "access": access_token,
                "refresh": refresh_token,
            },
        },
        status=200,
    )
    res.set_cookie("access_token", access_token, 
                    httponly=True)
    res.set_cookie("refresh_token", refresh_token, 
                    httponly=True)
    return res  
```

## Contact Me:
Roger Kim

[Github](https://github.com/RogerKimJazzLover)

e-mail: <minseungkim1017@gmail.com> 